---
layout: post
title:  "Step 1: Hyde"
date:   2016-02-10 20:11:00
categories: jekyll
---
So apparently SASS is supported out of box, and I don't feel like reinventing the wheel so I went with implementing a theme. Searching for Jekyll themes turns up [http://jekyllthemes.org/](http://jekyllthemes.org/) shockingly enough. Although their layout is deplorable I managed to find [Hyde](http://hyde.getpoole.com/) which is almost exactly what I wanted to build myself.

Hyde assumes you're starting from scratch, but if you're not it's not too difficult to update your existing site. There's probably an easier way, but I just went to [Hyde's github](https://github.com/poole/hyde) and manual copied/downloaded what I needed.

Here's the gist of what you'll need to update

 * _config.yml
 * _includes
 * _layouts
 * 404.html
 * index.html
 * public

Delete the files from `_layouts`, and `_includes` that you don't need anymore. You can also delete the `sass` and `css` directories.

Cool! Now just build and...

It will fail miserably. Seems Hyde was built on Jekyll v2 but we're using the new hotness, v3. It's actually not that bad to update. The build messages tell you everything you need to do, but it takes a few iterations to get all the gems you need. Here's the Cliff Notes version:

First go install Bundler if you don't have it: `gem install bundler` and run `bundle init`.

Then edit your Gem file, copy and paste in the following:

    gem "jekyll-paginate"
    gem "jekyll-watch"
    gem "kramdown"
    gem "redcarpet"
    gem "pygments.rb"

Now run `bundle`.

Almost there time to edit your \_config.yml. Add `gems: [jekyll-paginate]` anywhere and delete `relative_permalinks: true`.

That should do it. Run `jekyll serve` and you _should_ have a nice new Hyde themed site.

Next step is probably doctoring this theme to make it more my own, and probably refactoring that hard coded css to be sass instead.
